# Single for-loop traversal over 2D arrays

It demonstrates the use of a single for-loop for two-dimensional arrays. It shows the traversal of a two-dimensional array by one for-loop structure. A 2D-array variable (<i>A</i>) is declared with mixed datatypes as before, namely with string literals and number literals. A string variable <i>t</i> is initially set to empty. A variable <i>v</i> is set to zero and it represents the main counter of the for-loop. Another two variables (ie. <i>i</i> and <i>j</i>) are initialized with value zero and are the main coordinates for element identification. Each dimension of array <i>A</i> is stored in variables <i>n</i> and <i>m</i>, namely the number of rows in n and the number of columns in <i>m</i>. The upper limit of the for-loop is calculated based on the two known dimensions <i>n</i> and <i>m</i>. Thus, <i>m</i> times <i>n</i> establishes the upper limit of the for-loop. Here, the value of the counter <i>v</i> from the for-loop is used to calculate the <i>i</i> and <i>j</i> values that are used as an index to traverse the array variable <i>A</i>. The value of variable <i>j</i> is computed as the <i>v % m</i> and the result of this expression indicates the reminder (ex. 5 mod 3 is 2). The secret to this implementation is a condition that increments a variable <i>i</i> (rows) each time <i>j</i> (columns) equals zero. Thus, in this manner this approach provides the <i>i</i> and <i>j</i> values that a nested for-loop provides. At each iteration, the value from an element is added to the content of variable <i>t</i>. Once the end of the for-loop is reached, the value collected in variable <i>t</i> is printed in the output for inspection.

# References

- Paul A. Gagniuc. <i>An Introduction to Programming Languages: Simultaneous Learning in Multiple Coding Environments</i>. Synthesis Lectures on Computer Science. Springer International Publishing, 2023, pp. 1-280.
